Asterisk IVR language
======================
Asterisk IVR language contain syntax that is used in extensions.conf that is one of the most used and most important configuration file in Asterisk because it contains the dialplan.


Syntax
------
The Dialplan consists of a collection of contexts in extensions.conf file. A context is a collection of extensions and is defined in brackets above extensions ```[context]``` Each extension contains action, number defines priority (second) and the trigger (first)

```
[context]
exten => 123,1,Answer
exten => 123,2,Playback(intro)
exten => 123,3,Hangup
```

There are some important predefined extension names:

```i``` Invalid

```s``` Start

```t``` Timeout


Example
-------

```
[default]
exten => Sales,1,Dial(SIP/Sales);
exten => IT Department,2,Dial(SIP/IT Department);

[mainmenu]
exten => s,1,Answer
exten => 1,1,Goto(submenu,s,1)

[mainmenu]
exten => s,1,Answer
exten => s,n,Ringing
exten => s,n,Wait,2
exten => s,n,Background(submenuopts)
exten => s,n,WaitExten
exten => 1,1,Goto(default,Sales,1)
exten => 2,1,Goto(default,IT Department,1)
```

Desctiption of what the lines above exactly do.

```exten => s,1,Answer```

The first priority extension in submenu is Answer. That means the server will answer the call.

```exten => s,1,Ringing```

The second priority extension in submenu is Ringing. This this will play some ringing sound to the caller.

```exten => s,n,Wait,5```

The third extension will wait for 5 seconds.

```exten => s,n,Background(options)```

Playing the audio file "options" to the caller. This might for example contain: "Thanks for calling. For Sales press 1 for IT Department press 2"

```exten => s,n,WaitExten```

The 5th extension will wait for the caller to enter some digits.


(Now lets assume that the caller pressed 2.)

```exten => 2,1,Goto(default,IT Department,2)```

The caller pressed 2 and the call flow will go to the default context, second extension, that is IT Department.

```exten => IT Department,2,Dial(SIP/IT Department)```

In default context it will dial IT Department.




How to upload files (advanced)
-----------------

Recordings must be located in ```/home/MPS_ASTERISK``` directory. If this directory does not exist, you can create it or it will be created by MPS Voice Menu. In this directory are stored all recordings that can be used in project. If you dont have particular recording, it might be generated by MPS VoiceMenu into this directory. 
Supported format is ```.wav```. All recording have sended to asterisk server into ```/asterisk/MPS_ASTERISK``` directory.
Then recordings have to be later converted into ```.gsm``` file. 
  
  **Convert ```.wav``` to ```.gsm``` using sox**
  
  ```bash
  sox inputfile.wav -r 8000 -c1 outputfile.gsm
  ```

  **For more files it might look like this**
  
  ```bash
  for file in MPS_ASTERISK/*.wav; do
      sox $file -r 8000 -c1 $file".gsm" 2>/dev/null
  ```

MPS Voice Menu will also generate ```sip.conf``` and ```extensions.conf``` files. You have to replace your current files at asterisk server by these generated files. 

   **For copying files to the server is recommended to you ```scp``` command**
   
   ```bash
   scp -r MPS_ASTERISK/ user@server_address:/asterisk_directory
   ```
New files need to be loaded into Asterisk system.

   **Reloading files**
   
   ```bash
   [user@server_address asterisk]# asterisk -rvvv
   
   server_address*CLI> reload
   ```

   







